---
title: Two Ways
author: Jordan Tomasone
category: Self-Help
tags: [Self Help, Building a Better self, Jordan Tomasone]
---
Why is it that you become complacent?

You know that you can accomplish so much more. You have dreams and wishes, yet no actions.

I don’t think people understand that every person on this planet is just a person. There are no super humans, we are all super humans.

You should probably write that on your forehead backwards so you can see it every time you look in the mirror.

You have been told your entire life that you can be whoever you want to be. But all you do is fantasize about other people’s lives. You constantly read up and
follow the lives of people you want to be.

But do you ever become that person? Most of you would answer no, but you can change that. And it all starts with your brain.

Let me explain, there are two ways to do things in life.

1. You can do them and enjoy the experience, may it be good or bad.

2. You can watch it or read it and pretend you experienced it, may it be good or bad.

Notice how I said pretend, your mind actually creates this feeling by imagining it and putting yourself in the situation. Even though you don’t know what that
experience feels like. Your mind fills in the unknown gaps with similar memories that make you feel like you were there. Amazing right!?

Your brain does not care which one you do because all it wants is to be satisfied. Your brain will be happy regardless. You on the other hand will feel two completely different things.

When you watch or read things you get temporary satisfaction. You can put yourself in someone else’s shoes for a bit and try to feel what they are feeling.

But you don’t really know until you are physically there. How could you?

### Get Out There

Now if you actually go out and make these experiences, you will have a completely different feeling. Our brain is able to capture the moment and take everything in.
Your brain doesn’t know the difference but you can show it the difference. Think about a time when you had a great experience. A story that you tell to everyone you meet.

Now try and think about what it would be like to tell that story if it didn’t happen to you. It wouldn’t be the same would it? You wouldn’t be able to tell it with as much emotion because your brain didn't live through the experience, it was only shown.

If you don’t have a good story, think about someone who told you a story that you couldn’t forget. How did you feel while you were listening?

You might be feeling pretty good, then the story ends and you no longer have that feeling because you didn’t have the same experience as they did.

### Build A Foundation

I’m not saying you should not read or watch TV, because these can be great tools to relax or even further your knowledge and better yourself.

What I am saying is, don’t use them as the only way to satisfy your brain. Use them as tools, not experiences.

Think of it as the foundation to the life you want, this is one pillar that will help you support the life you want to live. There are many pillars, focus on this one for now.

But Jordan, I am never going to do a back flip on a dirt bike or surf a 20 ft tall wave in the ocean. There’s no way I could climb Mount Everest!

See how easy it is to think of all the things you can’t do and watch other people do them instead?

Recognize those thoughts, be self aware and challenge your brain.

Challenge your brain by going out and experiencing the world.

You need to gain new experiences, both good and bad in order to grow, so you can build a better life.

New experiences are scary, start slow and see what happens.

There is no need to go grab a surfboard and attempt to surf the biggest wave you can see. That is way too extreme and you will probably injure yourself.

A great way to start enjoying new experiences is to learn how to cook. It is simple and cheap, plus you get to eat after!

And who doesnt love that?

You could watch all the cooking shows you want and never cook a thing or you could take the first step and cook for yourself!

Don’t tell someone else’s story, tell your story.
